the United States carried out its first
airdrop of Aid into war torn Gaza on
Saturday three planes delivered around
38,000 meals into the besieged territory
where the UN says at least a quarter of
the population is close to famine
Washington says the air drops will be a
sustained effort that that Israel
supports the
[Music]
operation tens of thousands of ready
meals air dropped to a population that
the United Nation says is on the brink
of
famine the US says it's the start of a
broader campaign with the Biden
Administration trying to prevent a
humanitarian
disaster and while Aid agencies welcome
the airdrops they say it's nowhere near
enough the United States just air drop
38,000 meals it's not a consequential
input um it would be much better and
much more meaningful to make sure that
the crossings work more effectively and
that more trucks came through so
38,000 uh uh meals that's probably less
than one full
truck for some in Gaza the air drop
feels almost like a token gesture
considering the scale of the
humanitarian
crisis the United States is part of this
crime against Gaza today America is
trying to buy our Silence by sending us
Aid it's better for us to live in war
than to get aid from
America President Biden approved the
mission after more than 100 Palestinians
were killed during a chaotic encounter
with Aid trucks and the Israeli Army
last week he's under mounting pressure
both at home and abroad over his
response to the worsening humanitarian
crisis in
Gaza the situation in Gaza tonight can
only be described as catastrophic uh the
humanitarian needs are absolutely
through the roof uh families are
struggling to meet their daily needs
it's increasingly difficult to find
clean food uh clean water and access to
basic Healthcare uh there are increasing
reports of uh illnesses linked to
malnutrition uh we are seeing an
increase in the prevalence of diarrhea
um as well as other types of illnesses
as well such as scabies uh which are
very
concerning while the meals will be
welcome for many of those who can get
them it seems unlikely to have any real
lasting impact for the people being hit
hardest by this
war well for more I'm joined Now by our
DW correspondent Janelle dealon who's in
Washington DC Janelle the humanitarian
crisis in Gaza has been mounting for
months now so why is the Biden
Administration only dropping Aid
now well the Biden administration had
been looking into airdrops like these
for weeks now but they say that they
haven't done so until now because of the
logistical challenges involved but what
really appears to have moved the needle
this time around is that incident that
we described in that report we just
aired that incident around the deaths
around that humanitarian Convoy where
Israeli troops are accused of opening
fire on Palestinians trying to get food
from those Aid trucks now there's a lot
of uncertainty still around what
actually happened there but White House
spokesperson John Kirby said that that
incident highlighted the need to get
more creative way to find more creative
ways of getting greater assistance into
Gaza and at scale us officials really
treating this like a key event that
highlights the Dess of the situation in
Gaza also worth pointing out that this
is happening at a time where the Biden
Administration
is facing a lot of pressure over its
Israeli policy Biden expending a lot of
political Capital here losing a lot of
support among especially young voters
here in the US he's under pressure to be
showing to show that he's doing what he
can for the Palestinians but obviously
there is this reasonable reasonable
debate going around now as to how much
different air drops without any kind of
systematic distribution well how much
difference that will really
make and
is this actually intended to send a
message to the Israeli
government well the Biden Administration
has been quick to stress that these
airdrops are the beginning that we will
be seeing more of them at the same time
they're also quick to stress that these
are not a substitute for Aid delivered
via land corridors so the a so the
message that the Biden Administration
clearly wants to send to Israel here is
that it should do more to open up those
land Crossings to allow more Aid in but
of course there's this argument that
these airdrops would not be necessary if
the US were in fact able to pressure
Israel to open up these land Crossings
and as such critics say that the message
that Biden is inadvertently sending is
that Washington is unable or unwilling
to use that leverage that it has over
Israel to push Israel to open those land
Crossings to get in more Aid and instead
the US is having to resort to what
critics call a Band-Aid measure these
air drops that many deem risky and
ineffective Janelle dealo in DC thank
you so
much